





Home | Cyber @ UCI














Cyber @ UCI
We do all things Cybersecurity






Cyber @ UCI







Board
CCDC
Blog
Calendar
Sponsor














The Club
What about us?


                  Cyber @ UCI was created from a desire to have more cybersecurity exposure and
                  learning at UCI. Despite being a rapidly growing, and extremely important field,
                  cybersecurity is often only relegated to a couple upper division classes. That
                  just isn't right! At its core, being 'good' at cybersecurity necessitates being
                  plugged into the security community, and keeping up to date with all the latest
                  developments. Cyber @ UCI offers such a place, bringing people from all levels
                  of experience together with one common interest: cybersecurity. Yet more than
                  just a common interest, we have several branches of involvement that we offer...
                










Workshops
                        We highlight in-house talent, discuss major news events, or tackle common security topics in our weekly workshops.
                        Stay tuned on Discord for upcoming workshops and topics.
                      

CCDC
                          CCDC (Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition) is a staple for any aspiring cybersecurity expert. As a team, we compete against
                          other universities in real time to defend and maintain a live network.
                      

CTFs
                          Want more hands on? Check back soon for news on our Capture The Flag (CTF) competition, where teams of
                          students compete to solve the security challenges and win the grand prize!
                      




JOIN US
Interested in Cybersecurity? We'd love to have you!


                  People are always curious about what it takes to get into Cybersecurity, and the answer to that question is... just jump in!
                  Our club is structured in a way to encourage beginners to jump in and engage with our workshops, in house competitions, and
                  also our competition teams.
                

                  So how does one 'jump in?'
                



Speak


                        Join our Discord and introduce yourself!
                      



Listen


                        Sign up to our mailing list.
                      



Attend


                        You can join our CCDC Team, head to Defcon with us,
                         or participate in our CTF. These involements are seasonal so make sure you sign up to our mailing list to hear about them.
                      




Right Now
Check out our blog below to see what's up





01 Oct 2020
The Security Engineer Career Presentation


Guest Presentation by Security Engineer Karan Dwivedi

Full Story




12 Feb 2020
ioXt Talk


ioXt guest speaker talk on IoT security

Full Story




10 Oct 2019
Announcing our first HackLAN


Cyber's mixture of a CTF and a LAN party

Full Story




Read More...






Our Blog








© Cyber @ UCI© HTML5 UPDesign by HTML5 UP and Micah RaneyJekyll Integration by Slapform 

Privacy Policy 













