File: /Users/abhinandganesh/Desktop/ics-crawler/visited/statconsulting.ics.uci.edu/consulting-with-us/upcoming-events.html
==============================
Number of Tokens: 3961
Number of Characters: 9411
Number of Paragraphs: 42
Information Ratio: 1.0398
File Size: 66305







events


























About Us

Personnel
Affiliations
ICTS BERD Unit


Consulting With Us

Consulting Rates
Publication and Authorship
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
Testimonials


Resources

Classes and Training
Study Protocol (Data Format)
Upcoming Events
Workshop Materials


Request a Consultation

General Request
UCI Department of Surgery
Chapman University


Community Partners

Chapman University Researchers


Contact Us

Location
Share Your Feeback


Multivariate Regression in SPSS for Medical Research
September 7, 2021 by Anthony Chau 
Workshop Outline:

Statistical methods: to explore the effects of patients’ demographic and clinical factors on health outcomes, participants will learn four multivariable regression models for four different types of outcomes:


Linear regression for continuous outcomes such as biomarker levels
Logistic regression for binary outcomes such as treatment success or failure
Cox regression for time-to-event outcomes
Generalized linear regression for longitudinal outcomes that are measured sequentially over time from the same patients.


SPSS program: participants will have an opportunity to


Perform statistical procedures using mouse clicks on the drop-down menu in SPSS
Learn how to interpret SPSS outputs
Learn how to edit and present SPSS outputs in manuscript

How to access free version of SPSS
Participants are welcome to use their own SPSS program (version v26 or v27). For those who do not have SPSS, please use the free program from UCI OIT Virtual Computer Lab. UCI OIT offers free access to SPSS when you log into the Virtual Computer Lab using your UCINetID:

Open the following link: UCI Virtual Computing Lab to log into the virtual computer lab using your UCINETID
Once you are in the virtual computer lab, click on the button ‘LAUNCH’. A new window will pop up, showing many applications including ‘IBM SPSS’.
Double-click on ‘IBM SPSS’ icon to open the SPSS application

Filed Under: events Spring 2021 Stata Workshop Series
March 29, 2021 by Anthony Chau 
Introduction to Bayesian Statistics in Stata
April 12, 2021 | 11:30am-1 pm
 
Bayesian Multilevel/Longitudinal Modeling
May 10, 2021 | 11am-1pm
 
Item Response Theory (IRT) and Bayesian IRT
June 14, 2021 | 11am-1pm
 
Register for Introduction to Bayesian Statistics in Stata below
Register

Filed Under: events Winter 2021 Stata Workshop Series
December 16, 2020 by Anthony Chau 
Structural Equation Modeling
Jan 11, 2021 | 11am-1 pm
 
Mediation Analysis
Feb 8, 2021 | 11:30am-1pm
 
Latent Class Analysis
Mar 8, 2021 | 11:30am-1pm

Register via Eventbrite for any of the three workshops below.
Register

Filed Under: events Introduction to Medical Data Analysis in SPSS
December 8, 2020 by Anthony Chau 
Workshop Outline:

Basic formats of medical research protocols and manuscripts 

Medical research protocols: goal, specific aims, hypotheses, study design, outcomes, statistical methods, sample size and power analysis.
Manuscripts: scientific background, methods, results, and discussion.
An example of a medical research study


Statistical methods

Univariate analysis using descriptive statistics such as percentage, mean, and SD
Bivariate analysis using t test, chi-square test, Pearson’s correlation
Multivariate analysis using linear and logistic regression models


SPSS

What is SPSS? Pros and cons of SPSS compared with other statistical programs
How to obtain SPSS software
Describe the interface of SPSS (Data view and Variable view)
Explore the Menu: File, Edit, View, Data, Transform, Analyze, Graphs, Windows
How to upload a dataset in Excel or text format into SPSS
Mouse click versus syntax method
How to clean, transform, and format data
How to perform univariate analysis (percentage, mean, SD)
How to perform bivariate analysis (t test, chi-square test, Pearson’s correlation)
How to perform multivariate analyses (linear and logistic regression)
How to interpret and present statistical results in tables and graphs



How to access free version of SPSS
Participants are welcome to use their own SPSS program (version v26 or v27). For those who do not have SPSS, please use the free program from UCI OIT Virtual Computer Lab. UCI OIT offers free access to SPSS when you log into the Virtual Computer Lab using your UCINetID:

Open the following link: UCI Virtual Computing Lab to log into the virtual computer lab using your UCINETID
Once you are in the virtual computer lab, click on the button ‘LAUNCH’. A new window will pop up, showing many applications including ‘IBM SPSS’.
Double-click on ‘IBM SPSS’ icon to open the SPSS application

Filed Under: events The Design and Monitoring of Group Sequential Clinical Trials
December 3, 2020 by Anthony Chau 
December 10, 2020 | 9am – 4pm
Cost: $ 65
 
 
Register via Eventbrite below.
Register


Filed Under: events Fall 2020 Stata Workshop Series
September 30, 2020 by Anthony Chau 
Panel Data and Mixed Effects Models: What’s the Difference
Oct 12 | 12 – 1pm
 
Multilevel/Longitudinal Modeling
Nov 9 | 11:30 – 1pm
 
Survival Analysis 1/2
Dec 7 | 11 – 1pm
 
Register via Eventbrite for any of the three workshops below.
Register

Filed Under: events Experimental Design – The Key to Reliable & Reproducible Research
August 11, 2020 by Anthony Chau 
August 28, 2020 | 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM | Hosted on Zoom
The cost of the workshop is $15.
Register


Filed Under: events Psychometrics and Causal Inference in Stata
May 1, 2020 by fontejon 
May 29th, 2020 | 8:15 AM to 4:00 PM | Hosted on Zoom
Free for registered participants to attend
Register Today >



Schedule:





8:30 – 9:30am
Basic Stata Commands


9:30 – 10:30am
Basic Stata Estimation Commands


10:45 – 11:45am
Intro to Psychometrics with Stata: Topics include reliability, Cohen’s kappa statistic, canonical correlation, Cronbach’s alpha, exploratory factor and confirmatory factor analysis, factor rotations, multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA), contrasts and pairwise comparisons, structural equation modeling (SEM), item response theory (IRT), and latent class analysis (LCA).


1 – 2:15pm
Intro to Causal Inference and Treatment Effects Basic concepts of causal inference including counterfactuals and potential outcomes are introduced. Demonstration of Stata’s -teffects- suite of commands to fit causal models using propensity score matching, inverse-probability weighting, regression adjustment, “doubly-robust” estimators that use a combination of inverse-probability weighting with regression adjustment, and nearest-neighbor matching.


2:30 – 4pm
Causal Inference for Complex Observational Data Concepts in missing data such as missing at random (MAR), missing not at random (MNAR), and unobserved confounding are introduced. This talk will demonstrate how to use standard maximum likelihood estimation to fit extended regression models (ERMs) that deal with all of these common issues alone or simultaneously.



Register Today >

Filed Under: events Introduction to R the Tidy Way
March 3, 2020 by fontejon 
March 5th, 2020 | 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM
Description:Tidyverse is a set of R packages that are known for their consistent grammar. This workshop will introduce packages in the Tidyverse collection and other packages that use tidy principles. It will cover summarizing data with descriptive statistics and visualizations, wrangling data, statistical modeling and writing reproducible reports with R Markdown. Prerequisite Knowledge: Some experience with working with data in R, Excel, SAS, SPSS, Python or any other tool.
Instructor Bio:Mine Dogucu is Assistant Professor of Teaching in the Department of Statistics. Her work focuses on integrating data science and computing in the statistics curriculum, making Bayesian education accessible at the undergraduate level, and instructor training. She has been an R user for more than 10 years and has been using Tidyverse in the last 3 years.
Location:University of California, IrvineSchool of Information & Computer ScienceDepartment of StatisticsSecond Floor, Room 2011
Cost: $95.00Breakfast and lunch will be provided.Please bring a laptop to the workshop.
Register Online: https://tinyurl.com/RTheTidyWay
Register Today >

Filed Under: events Intro to Clinical Trial Design
October 8, 2019 by fontejon 
October 24, 2019 from 9AM-5 PM
presented by: Dan GillenProfessor and ChairUCI’s Department of Statistics
This short course will cover the fundamentals of clinical trials design including both primary design issues as well as proper conduct and implementations. After this course researchers will be familiar with specific design issues including screening studies, planning statistical tasks and the essential elements of a clinical protocol. The important aspects of proper implementation including randomization, blinding, and surrogate endpoints will be discussed. The course will not require heavy statistical abilities but will instead focus on the essential elements of design to best ensure valid, generalizable, and reproducible trial results. This course is great if you are new to trial design or just want a refresher on the fundamentals.
Location:UCI’s Donald Bren Hall – Conference Room 2011
Cost: $45.00Course materials and lunch will be provided.
Register Online: 
Register Today >

Filed Under: events 1
2
Next Page »

© 2022 Center for Statistical Consulting - Dept. Of Statistics - University of California Irvine


















