File: /Users/abhinandganesh/Desktop/ics-crawler/visited/futurehealth.ics.uci.edu/news.html
==============================
Number of Tokens: 2722
Number of Characters: 7278
Number of Paragraphs: 51
Information Ratio: 1.0789
File Size: 49532






UCI Institute for Future Health | IFH’s Research on COVID-19 enabled by UC CORDS



























































Home
News

IFH
Healthcare


Events
Projects
Members

IFH Members


Key Disciplines
Collaborators
Publications
Resources
Videos
About Us
Join Us
Contact
 








NEWS
 









Home                    


/IFH News 






IFH News






 - 8 Oct 2022  
IFH’s Research on COVID-19 enabled by UC CORDS
IFH has had a significant contribution to COVID research using US CORDS. Our researchers studied the impact of COVID-19 on diverse populations resulting in multiple peer-reviewed publications.







 - 22 Aug 2022  
A large scale center-wide trial in Southern California is using ZotCare
IFH tools have enabled the execution of large scale center-wide trials in Southern California. ZotCare is used to remotely monitor more than one-thousand hypertensive patients in Southern California.







IFH - 19 Aug 2022  
IFH and Stanford Health Care have partnered with HealthUnity
IFH team is proud to be closely working with HealthUnity in food-logging, world food atlas, and Personicle-related technology.







 - 7 Nov 2021  
IFH has joined ISO to standardize “Personalized Health Navigation”
IFH -along with other partners such as CDC, FDA, Pfizer Inc, Johnson & Johnson, Kaiser Permanente, and HL7 International- has joined a new working group (WG 11) focused on “Personalized health navigation” under health informatics.







 - 8 Oct 2021  
IFH research was featured in Rolling Stone: people with long COVID and risks of going back to the office
Three IFH members (Melissa Pinto, Jessica Borelli, and Amir M. Rahmani) are collaborating in this project with colleagues from the Survivor Corps organization, University of Indiana, Mayo Clinic, and the University of Miami. 







IFH - 29 Jul 2021  
In the Media: Dr. Melissa Pinto discusses Long COVID
Associate Professor Melissa Pinto talks to Los Al TV about research around people who continue to suffer symptoms long after their initial COVID-19 infection has passed, known as COVID long-haulers.







IFH - 19 May 2021  
Keynote Speaker in “International Conference on Innovation & Sustainability”
Ramesh Jain presented his research on the Personal Food Model and World Food Atlas  as the Keynote Speaker in the “International Conference on Innovation & Sustainability” organized during February 5-6, 2021







IFH - 14 May 2021  
Mental Health Navigation for College Students
A group of IFH members received the SSIHI Pilot Studies Award to address loneliness in college students using a navigational approach.







 - 20 Apr 2021  
The research of a multi-disciplinary group of IFH members on “Long Covid” was features in NY Times.
This research reveals that “Many Long Covid Patients Had No Symptoms From Their Initial Infection”.







 - 3 Apr 2021  
IFH in the media
The establishment of IFH was covered in Becker’s Health IT News.







 - 30 Mar 2021  
NSF funds an IFH-sponsored project to build a digital community-centered care platform
The National Science Foundation has awarded Drs. Rahmani, Nyamathi, and Dutt, a planning grant to establish a model of digital community-centered care (D-CCC).







 - 3 Jan 2021  
NIH funds minority underserved family caregiver home visit intervention study
NIH has awarded the IFH Members (Lee, Rahmani, Gibbs, Shin, and Nyamathi) a $3.6 million R01 research project grant to implement a home-based, culturally and language-specific caregiving intervention for underserved dementia family caregivers.



 


Healthcare News





Healthcare - 6 Jan 2022  
Artificial intelligence predicts who will develop dementia in two years
AI can predict if people develop dementia within two years. The prediction accuracy is 92 percent, obtained in a largescale study conducted on more than 15,400 patients in the U.S.







Healthcare - 3 Jan 2022  
Oracle acquires Cerner for $28.3B
Oracle announces that the company will expand its global footprint since it invests big in healthcare. Oracle Corporation will acquire Cerner Corporation for $95 per share in an all-cash deal.







Healthcare - 14 Dec 2021  
Alexa Together, a subscription-based service, by Amazon
Amazon has officially launched Alexa Together, a subscription-based service, to offer remote health and wellbeing support to the elderly.







Healthcare - 6 Oct 2021  
UCI and Syntropy Announce Five-Year Strategic Partnership to Improve Patient Care Through Unprecedented Data Integration
Academic partnership aims to empower researchers to drive scientific innovation through revolutionary utilization of health data







 - 22 Sep 2021  
The Present and Future of Wearable Devices in Physical Activity Research
Wearable devices that track physical activity are becoming increasingly pervasive in society today.
Join The Webinar
Thu, Oct 28, 2021 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM PDT
Join Webinar







Healthcare - 13 Sep 2021  
Grace The Humanoid Robot Healthcare Assistant & SingularityNET
The Awakening Health fusion of biomedical knowledge, AI, and robotics is poised to drive the massive advent of healthcare robots to transform the medical arena and generate millions of API calls for SingularityNET.







Healthcare - 4 Aug 2021  
Wearable tech can spot coronavirus symptoms before you even realize you’re sick
Researchers say the constant stream of data from Oura rings, Fitbits and Apple Watches could eventually be used as a coronavirus early-warning system







Healthcare - 16 Jul 2021  
HCA Healthcare, a hospital system based in Nashville, recently announced a data-sharing deal with Google
Health care systems and providers must do all they can to properly inform patients of the benefits and risks of enrolling in data sharing.







Healthcare - 4 Jul 2021  
What universal healthcare should look like
The struggle to cover every American may continue for decades — and we need to think differently about cheap health tech and prevention first.
by Chris Taylor







Healthcare - 2 Jul 2021  
Collection of papers on Real-World Evidence from the National Academies workshop series
Our 4 paper series on real-world evidence now linked on one page at the National Academies of Sciences. Onward to better evidence for decisions. says Dr. Jonathan H. Watanabe







Healthcare - 21 Jun 2021  
The hospital room of the future: 5 innovation execs outline what to expect in next 5 years
Digital health and tech adoption have skyrocketed since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, leaving many hospitals and health systems adopting technologies that support remote patient monitoring, two-way video communications and more. 







 - 14 Jun 2021  
Datavant and Ciox Health Announce Merger, Creating the Largest Neutral and Secure Health Data Ecosystem
Combined company positioned to solve the challenge of health data fragmentation
Joint technology solution enhances patient privacy and health care efficiency
Company to be named Datavant, with revenue of more than $700 million



 





News
Events
Projects
IFH Members
 

About IFH
Key disciplines
Collaborators
Work with us
Contact us
 

 
				info@futurehealth.uci.edu









				© Copyright 2021 UCI Institute for Future Health - All Rights Reserved
				































