






VisR:  Organizing and sharing visual experiences of Events – Ramesh Jain
































 
Search






									Ramesh Jain								

Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher




About Ramesh

News
Events


Blogs
Research

Books
Patents
Presentations
Projects
Research Papers

Computer Vision
Experiential Computing
Multimedia Information Management




Teaching

Current Courses
Past Courses


Entrepreneurship

Current Companies
Past Companies


Partners

Current Students
Past Students
Collaborators


Professional/Social

Services
Recognitions
Interviews


Personal

Affiliations
Education
Favorite Books
Favorite Quotes


Navigation





 



    				VisR:  Organizing and sharing visual experiences of Events    			


VisR is a company that I am affiliated with. I am happy to see some of my long-term research ideas starting to take shape and go beyond academic research community.  VisR organizes and helps you share and retrieve your visual events.  The latest version was released in Android market place and a web site to go with it is going to be online very soon.  The team has done excellent job — my congratulations and THANKS to them.  It is exciting to see these ideas being put in the easiest to use form with modern UI/UX.  We expect to release the iPhone version in a few weeks.
If you have an android phone, please do use this.  And let me know what you would like to see in the next versions of the software.  We want to make it useful and exciting system to save, share, and relish you visual experiences of events.

								Tagged on: Android, photo management, visual events 



By Ramesh |
    				July 22, 2011 |
    				             		Entrepreneurism |
             	 
    				             		No Comments |
             	 		          				
    			


← Quantifying Semantic Gap
Ancient Photo Gallery in Modern Phones →



Leave a ReplyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 













Copyright © 2022 Ramesh Jain |  Theme by: Theme Horse |  Powered by: WordPress
Back to Top 


