




UCI Institute for Future Health | Building Personal model for Health Navigation






























































Home
News

IFH
Healthcare


Events
Projects
Members

IFH Members


Key Disciplines
Collaborators
Publications
Resources
Videos
About Us
Join Us
Contact
 








PROJECTS
 









Home                    


/Projects/Building Personal model for... 









Building Personal model for Health Navigation
Population based healthcare models, while helpful in treating diseases caused by external stimulus, have proven not so effective for chronic diseases where the functioning of our biological systems degrades over time. We need to collect high-resolution longitudinal data about the individual to model and predict the transitions of their individual health state over time. Event mining allows us to model the relationships between different events that occur during the course of an individual’s life. We can find the impact of different events on the users’ health by initializing the users’ model (personal model) from domain knowledge and model the nature of the relationships using the data collected in their personal logs (personicle).
Event mining can also be used to find previously unknown relationships by combining it with causal discovery algorithms.

	Publications:– Laleh Jalali, Ramesh Jain, Bringing Deep Causality to Multimedia Data Streams. ACM Multimedia 2015: 221-230
– N. Nag and R. Jain, A navigational approach to health: Actionable guid¬ance for improved quality of life. IEEE Computer, vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 12–20. April 2019.
– Nitish Nag, Vaibhav Pandey, Preston J. Putzel, Hari Bhimaraju, Srikanth Krishnan, Ramesh Jain, Cross-Modal Health State Estimation. ACM Multimedia 2018: 1993-2002



Project information

Category: Health State Estimation, Personal Health Models, and Population Models
Contact Person: Ramesh Jain



 







News
Events
Projects
IFH Members
 

About IFH
Key disciplines
Collaborators
Work with us
Contact us
 

 
				info@futurehealth.uci.edu









				© Copyright 2021 UCI Institute for Future Health - All Rights Reserved
				





























