




UCI Institute for Future Health | Grace The Humanoid Robot Healthcare Assistant & SingularityNET






























































Home
News

IFH
Healthcare


Events
Projects
Members

IFH Members


Key Disciplines
Collaborators
Publications
Resources
Videos
About Us
Join Us
Contact
 



 



HEALTHCARE NEWS
 









Home                    


/Healthcare News/Grace The Humanoid Robot... 








Grace The Humanoid Robot Healthcare Assistant & SingularityNET
September 13, 2021
Awakening brings Grace to life at a time when medical systems are at a breaking point and cutting edge AI robotics are the solution to Life Made Better
Awakening houses the interests of a select group of founding partners to create a platform where the world of biotech meets that of AI and robotics through the creation of Grace This new medical assistant robot is named Grace because it means divine assistance given to humans for their regeneration or sanctification.

The Time is Right
To meet the needs of a world where medical assistance is at a premium Awakening combines robotics and advanced AI to assist medical professionals and collect biodata in a secure manner to deliver groundbreaking diagnostic advances.
Healthcare systems are overloaded and burdened with high labor costs and shortages of healthcare workers. These systems are further challenged by new disease transmission, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, due to the close proximity of patients and medical staff. Social robots like Grace can help support healthcare workers and serve as a telepresence intermediary to prevent the potential transmission of disease to medical staff.
Grace recognizes emotions, converses closely to a human level within appropriate contexts, and shows perpetual empathy toward patients without becoming tired or stressed. On a social level, Grace can recognize a voice in hundreds of languages, detect whether that voice is a man, woman or child, and identify if they or any of their Grace colleagues have interacted with that person. This makes a strong candidate for customer engagement activities within healthcare.
There is no better time than now for the introduction of robotic medical assistance.
Awakening’s initial foray is in the elderly care sector. The opportunity in the elderly care sector is growing exponentially as rapidly aging populations mean one in four people in Japan, Europe,
the United States, and China will be over the age of 65 by 2030. This is likely to put significant stress on the elderly care and healthcare systems in these countries and human-like robots are one of the major service support solutions.
https://awakening.health/














News
Events
Projects
IFH Members
 

About IFH
Key disciplines
Collaborators
Work with us
Contact us
 

 
				info@futurehealth.uci.edu









				© Copyright 2021 UCI Institute for Future Health - All Rights Reserved
				





























