




UCI Institute for Future Health | The Present and Future of Wearable Devices in Physical Activity Research






























































Home
News

IFH
Healthcare


Events
Projects
Members

IFH Members


Key Disciplines
Collaborators
Publications
Resources
Videos
About Us
Join Us
Contact
 



 



HEALTHCARE NEWS
 









Home                    


/Healthcare News/The Present and Future... 








The Present and Future of Wearable Devices in Physical Activity Research
September 22, 2021
Wearable devices that track physical activity are becoming increasingly pervasive in society today. These devices have the potential to provide key insight into population-level physical activity patterns, while also demonstrating the ability to facilitate positive behavior change. However, these devices are not without their limitations, and many other issues are certain to arise in the future as these devices and the data derived from them evolve. This webinar will explore the present and future of wearable physical activity devices in the field of behavioral medicine, with the goal of providing attendees with important information to help them decide whether to incorporate these devices into their research.
Please send your questions, comments and feedback to: info@sbm.org
 

 Click the link to join the webinar at the specified time and date:
Join Webinar

Note: This link should not be shared with others; it is unique to you.
Before joining, be sure to check system requirements to avoid any connection issues.

 Choose one of the following audio options:

TO USE YOUR COMPUTER’S AUDIO:
When the webinar begins, you will be connected to audio using your computer’s microphone and speakers (VoIP). A headset is recommended.
–OR–
TO USE YOUR TELEPHONE:
If you prefer to use your phone, you must select “Use Telephone” after joining the webinar and call in using the numbers below.
United States: +1 (562) 247-8421
Access Code: 724-650-348
Audio PIN: Shown after joining the webinar
Calling from another country?
Webinar ID: 897-715-379
To Cancel this Registration
If you can’t attend this webinar, you may cancel your registration at any time.














News
Events
Projects
IFH Members
 

About IFH
Key disciplines
Collaborators
Work with us
Contact us
 

 
				info@futurehealth.uci.edu









				© Copyright 2021 UCI Institute for Future Health - All Rights Reserved
				





























